technical/custom-nodes/stream-pack/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: "Overview"
description: "Discover StreamPack's custom nodes for enhancing video, audio, and data workflows with real-time performance."
---

The ComfyUI-Stream-Pack provides a [custom node pack](https://github.com/livepeer/ComfyUI-Stream-Pack) for ComfyUI, designed specifically for building real-time video, audio, and data pipelines. These tools enhance output quality, optimize performance, and include benchmarking and profiling features to help users create and refine efficient AI-driven workflows.

<Tip>
  We also recommend **third-party nodes** from other teams that work well with
  real-time workflows. While not maintained by the ComfyStream team, these nodes
  are highly compatible and can enhance your pipelines. Learn more on the
  [Third-Party Nodes](/technical/custom-nodes/third-party-nodes) page.
</Tip>

## Installation

<Note>
  We are actively working on publishing the StreamPack as a ComfyUI registry
  node. Once available, you will be able to install it directly via the ComfyUI
  Manager for a more streamlined setup process.
</Note>

To use the StreamPack nodes, you need to install the StreamPack repository in your ComfyUI setup.

{/* <!-- prettier-ignore-start --> */}

<Steps>
  <Step title="Navigate to the custom_nodes directory">
    Open a terminal and navigate to the `custom_nodes` directory in your ComfyUI workspace:
    ```bash
    cd /workspace/ComfyUI/custom_nodes
    ```
  </Step>
  <Step title="Clone the StreamPack repository">
    Clone the StreamPack repository from GitHub:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/livepeer/ComfyUI-Stream-Pack.git
    cd ComfyUI-Stream-Pack
    ```
  </Step>
  <Step title="Install dependencies">
    Activate your ComfyUI environment and install the required dependencies:
    ```bash
    conda activate comfyui
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
  </Step>
  <Step title="Restart ComfyUI">
    Restart your ComfyUI server to load the new nodes.
  </Step>
</Steps>
{/* <!-- prettier-ignore-end --> */}

## StreamPack Nodes Overview

StreamPack includes a variety of custom nodes grouped into four main categories: **Video Quality Nodes**, which enhance video output; **Performance Nodes**, which optimize real-time workflows; **Benchmarking and Profiling Tools**, which help analyze and refine workflow efficiency; and **Task-Specific Nodes**, which provide specialized functionality for real-time video workflows.

{/* <!-- prettier-ignore-start --> */}

<Accordion title="Video Quality Nodes">
  - [Feature Bank](/technical/custom-nodes/stream-pack/feature-bank): Improves video quality by using information from previous frames to reduce flickering and ensure smoother transitions.
  - **Super Resolution**: A high-performance upscaling node that uses neural network models like FSRCNN and EDSR to enhance video resolution in real-time, balancing speed and quality.
</Accordion>
{/* <!-- prettier-ignore-end --> */}

<Accordion title="Performance Nodes">
  <Note>
    The nodes in this category are still under development and will be released
    soon.
  </Note>
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Benchmarking and Profiling Tools">
  <Note>
    The nodes in this category are still under development and will be released
    soon.
  </Note>
</Accordion>

{/* <!-- prettier-ignore-start --> */}

<Accordion title="Task-Specific Nodes">
  - **Facial Mesh**: A MediaPipe Face Mesh node that detects and tracks facial landmarks. It can be used as an additional ControlNet input to enhance facial tracking in real-time workflows.
</Accordion>
{/* <!-- prettier-ignore-end --> */}

Commit message:

docs(stream-pack): add alpha status notice for StreamPack
This update adds an admonition to inform users that the StreamPack is in active
development and not yet stable. It also encourages users to provide feedback to
help improve the project during its early stages.

technical/custom-nodes/stream-pack/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: "Overview"
description: "Discover StreamPack's custom nodes for enhancing video, audio, and data workflows with real-time performance."
---

<Info>
  The ComfyUI-Stream-Pack is in active development and not yet stable. We
  welcome [your
  feedback](https://github.com/livepeer/ComfyUI-Stream-Pack/issues/new) as we
  continue to improve it.
</Info>

The ComfyUI-Stream-Pack provides a [custom node pack](https://github.com/livepeer/ComfyUI-Stream-Pack) for ComfyUI, designed specifically for building real-time video, audio, and data pipelines. These tools enhance output quality, optimize performance, and include benchmarking and profiling features to help users create and refine efficient AI-driven workflows.

<Tip>
  We also recommend **third-party nodes** from other teams that work well with
  real-time workflows. While not maintained by the ComfyStream team, these nodes
  are highly compatible and can enhance your pipelines. Learn more on the
  [Third-Party Nodes](/technical/custom-nodes/third-party-nodes) page.
</Tip>

## Installation

<Note>
  We are actively working on publishing the StreamPack as a ComfyUI registry
  node. Once available, you will be able to install it directly via the ComfyUI
  Manager for a more streamlined setup process.
</Note>

To use the StreamPack nodes, you need to install the StreamPack repository in your ComfyUI setup.

{/* <!-- prettier-ignore-start --> */}

<Steps>
  <Step title="Navigate to the custom_nodes directory">
    Open a terminal and navigate to the `custom_nodes` directory in your ComfyUI workspace:
    ```bash
    cd /workspace/ComfyUI/custom_nodes
    ```
  </Step>
  <Step title="Clone the StreamPack repository">
    Clone the StreamPack repository from GitHub:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/livepeer/ComfyUI-Stream-Pack.git
    cd ComfyUI-Stream-Pack
    ```
  </Step>
  <Step title="Install dependencies">
    Activate your ComfyUI environment and install the required dependencies:
    ```bash
    conda activate comfyui
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
  </Step>
  <Step title="Restart ComfyUI">
    Restart your ComfyUI server to load the new nodes.
  </Step>
</Steps>
{/* <!-- prettier-ignore-end --> */}

## StreamPack Nodes Overview

StreamPack includes a variety of custom nodes grouped into four main categories: **Video Quality Nodes**, which enhance video output; **Performance Nodes**, which optimize real-time workflows; **Benchmarking and Profiling Tools**, which help analyze and refine workflow efficiency; and **Task-Specific Nodes**, which provide specialized functionality for real-time video workflows.

{/* <!-- prettier-ignore-start --> */}

<Accordion title="Video Quality Nodes">
  - [Feature Bank](/technical/custom-nodes/stream-pack/feature-bank): Improves video quality by using information from previous frames to reduce flickering and ensure smoother transitions.
  - **Super Resolution**: A high-performance upscaling node that uses neural network models like FSRCNN and EDSR to enhance video resolution in real-time, balancing speed and quality.
</Accordion>
{/* <!-- prettier-ignore-end --> */}

<Accordion title="Performance Nodes">
  <Note>
    The nodes in this category are still under development and will be released
    soon.
  </Note>
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Benchmarking and Profiling Tools">
  <Note>
    The nodes in this category are still under development and will be released
    soon.
  </Note>
</Accordion>

{/* <!-- prettier-ignore-start --> */}

<Accordion title="Task-Specific Nodes">
  - **Facial Mesh**: A MediaPipe Face Mesh node that detects and tracks facial landmarks. It can be used as an additional ControlNet input to enhance facial tracking in real-time workflows.
</Accordion>
{/* <!-- prettier-ignore-end --> */}
