technical/custom-nodes/stream-pack/super-resolution.mdx, before:

---
title: "Super Resolution"
description: "Upscale video frames in real-time using GPU acceleration."
---

<Note>
  This node is based on the work by **ryanontheinside** in his GitHub repository [ComfyUI_SuperResolution](https://github.com/ryanontheinside/ComfyUI_SuperResolution).
</Note>

## Introduction

The **Super Resolution** node **upscales** video frames with pre-trained models. The process leverages GPU acceleration through **OpenCV** compiled with CUDA support,
 ensuring exceptional speed ideal for real-time applications. When using workflows with base Stable Diffusion models optimized for **512x512**, higher resolutions can compromise efficiency and FPS.
 In these scenarios, a dedicated super-resolution node allows upscaling without significantly affecting performance or quality.

## Setup Method

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Docker Setup (Recommended)">
    The node is optimized for high-speed upscaling and requires OpenCV with CUDA support. By running ComfyStream with the **[Docker setup](/technical/get-started/install#install-with-docker)**, 
    you get a precompiled package from [ComfyUI-Stream-Pack/releases](https://github.com/JJassonn69/ComfyUI-Stream-Pack/releases/tag/v1.0) included in the Docker image. This eliminates the need for manual compilation.
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Manual Installation (Advanced)">
    If you prefer to install OpenCV with CUDA support manually, follow the guide in article [Installing OpenCV with CUDA Support](https://medium.com/@juancrrn/installing-opencv-4-with-cuda-in-ubuntu-20-04-fde6d6a0a367).
    This guides you through the multiple steps and prerequisites needed to successfully compile OpenCV package.
    
    You can use the following code block as a reference, modify the paths and variables to match your system.

    ```bash [expandable]
    # Clone OpenCV repositories
    git clone --depth 1 --branch 4.11.0 https://github.com/opencv/opencv.git
    git clone --depth 1 --branch 4.11.0 https://github.com/opencv/opencv_contrib.git

    # Create build directory
    mkdir -p opencv/build

    # Create a toolchain file with absolute path
    cat > custom_toolchain.cmake << EOF
    # Custom toolchain file to exclude Conda paths
    
    # Set system compilers
    set(CMAKE_C_COMPILER "/usr/bin/gcc")
    set(CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER "/usr/bin/g++")
    
    # Set system root directories
    set(CMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH "/usr")
    set(CMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH_MODE_PROGRAM NEVER)
    set(CMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH_MODE_LIBRARY ONLY)
    set(CMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH_MODE_INCLUDE ONLY)
    set(CMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH_MODE_PACKAGE ONLY)
    
    # Explicitly exclude Conda paths
    list(APPEND CMAKE_IGNORE_PATH 
        "/workspace/miniconda3"
        "/workspace/miniconda3/envs"
        "/workspace/miniconda3/envs/comfystream"
        "/workspace/miniconda3/envs/comfystream/lib"
    )
    
    # Set RPATH settings
    set(CMAKE_SKIP_BUILD_RPATH FALSE)
    set(CMAKE_BUILD_WITH_INSTALL_RPATH FALSE)
    set(CMAKE_INSTALL_RPATH "/usr/local/lib:/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu")
    set(PYTHON_LIBRARY "/workspace/miniconda3/envs/comfystream/lib/")
    set(CMAKE_INSTALL_RPATH_USE_LINK_PATH TRUE)
    EOF

    # Set environment variables for OpenCV
    echo 'export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH' >> ~/.bashrc
    source ~/.bashrc

    # Build and install OpenCV with CUDA support
    cd opencv/build
    cmake \
      -D CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../../custom_toolchain.cmake \
      -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RELEASE \
      -D CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local \
      -D WITH_CUDA=ON \
      -D WITH_CUDNN=ON \
      -D WITH_CUBLAS=ON \
      -D WITH_TBB=ON \
      -D OPENCV_DNN_CUDA=ON \
      -D OPENCV_ENABLE_NONFREE=ON \
      -D CUDA_ARCH_LIST="8.0+PTX" \
      -D CUDA_TOOLKIT_ROOT_DIR=/usr/local/cuda-${CUDA_VERSION} \
      -D OPENCV_EXTRA_MODULES_PATH=../../opencv_contrib/modules \
      -D PYTHON3_EXECUTABLE=/workspace/miniconda3/envs/comfystream/bin/python3.11 \
      -D PYTHON_INCLUDE_DIR=/workspace/miniconda3/envs/comfystream/include/python3.11 \
      -D PYTHON_LIBRARY=/workspace/miniconda3/envs/comfystream/lib/libpython3.11.so \
      -D HAVE_opencv_python3=ON \
      -D WITH_NVCUVID=OFF \
      -D WITH_NVCUVENC=OFF \
      ..
    make -j$(nproc)
    make install
    ldconfig
    ```

    After the compilation, you can verify that OpenCV is installed correctly by running:
    ```bash
    python3 -c "import cv2; print(cv2.cuda.getCudaEnabledDeviceCount())"
    ```
    This should output `1` or higher depending on the number of CUDA-enabled devices in your machine if installation was successful.
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Adding the Node

<Note>
  An example upscaling workflow using the Super Resolution node is available
  [here](https://github.com/livepeer/ComfyUI-Stream-Pack/blob/main/examples/workflows/super-res-fscnn-upscale-2x-gpu-api.json).
</Note>

<Steps>
  <Step title="Install the StreamPack Nodes">
    Ensure the [StreamPack](https://github.com/livepeer/ComfyUI-Stream-Pack) custom nodes are installed in your ComfyUI setup. Follow the [installation instructions](/technical/custom-nodes/stream-pack/overview#installation) for a step-by-step guide.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Open the ComfyUI Graph Editor">
    Right-click on an empty area of the canvas and choose **Add Node**.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Find the Super Resolution Nodes">
    Search for `SuperResolution` under the `StreamPack/` category.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Place it in the Workflow">
    There are two nodes under SuperResolution: `SR Model Loader` and `SR Upscale`. You need both to upscale, so place them on the canvas.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Connect Inputs and Configure Parameters">
    - In `SR Model Loader`, you'll see widgets to select the upscaling model and scale factor.
    - Connect the output of `SR Model Loader` to the input of `SR Upscale`.
    - In the `SR Upscale` node, toggle the `use CUDA` widget to `true` to enable CUDA acceleration.
    - Connect an image to the input of `SR Upscale` and a preview node to the output.
  </Step>
</Steps>

<Frame caption="Minimal Super Resolution Node Implementation">
  <img
    src="/images/stream-pack/super-resolution/super-resolution-node-image.png"
    alt="Super Resolution Node Integration"
  />
</Frame>

## Parameters

The following parameters control how the Super Resolution models behave:

### SR Model Loader Node

<ParamField path="model_type" type="string">
  **Model Type**: Select the upscaling model to use. The quality and performance vary by model. Models are downloaded and loaded automatically when selected in the canvas. Below is a basic comparison of the models.
</ParamField>

| Model | Architecture | Features | Best For | Speed | Quality |
|-------|--------------|----------|----------|-------|---------|
| **FSRCNN-small** | Lightweight CNN | Fast, minimal memory use | Real-time processing, mobile | ★★★★★ | ★★ |
| **FSRCNN** | CNN with larger features | Good balance of speed/quality | General purpose | ★★★★ | ★★★ |
| **ESPCN** | Sub-pixel convolutions | Efficient upscaling at end | Text/line drawings | ★★★★ | ★★★ |
| **VDSR** | Very deep CNN | Better edge reconstruction | Detailed images with edges | ★★★ | ★★★★ |
| **LapSRN** | Laplacian pyramid | Progressive upscaling | Sharp edges, details | ★★★ | ★★★★ |
| **EDSR** | Deep residual network | Most parameters, best quality | Maximum detail | ★★ | ★★★★★ |

<ParamField path="scale_factor" type="integer">
  **Scale Factor**: Select the upscaling factor. The image will be upscaled by this factor. For example, if the input image is `512x512`, the output will be `1024x1024` with a scale factor of `2`.
</ParamField>

### SR Upscale Node

<ParamField path="use_CUDA" type="boolean">
  **Use CUDA**: Toggle to `true` to enable CUDA acceleration for upscaling.
</ParamField>

<Accordion title="Tips for Tuning and Best Practices">

- **Select the Model for Upscaling**: Choose the model based on desired upscaling quality and performance; refer to the comparison table above.
- **Scaling Factor Selection**: Consider the required output resolution when choosing the scale factor. A higher scaling factor increases processing time, potentially reducing real-time performance.
- **Using CUDA Acceleration**: While CPU can be used for upscaling, it is significantly slower. Use CUDA acceleration for optimal performance.

</Accordion>

## Strengths and Limitations

While the Super Resolution node offers significant performance benefits compared to other upscaling methods, it also introduces a few trade-offs depending on your use case.

### Strengths

- Modular design
- Fast performance via CUDA
- Wide suite of supported models

### Limitations

- **Setup Complexity** – The node requires a version of OpenCV with CUDA support, which may require additional setup, since the CUDA is only available for NVIDIA GPUs, it will not work on other GPUs.

## Acknowledgments

<Accordion title="Credits">

This nodepack implements models originally created by:

- FSRCNN: [Dong et al., 2016](https://mmlab.ie.cuhk.edu.hk/projects/FSRCNN.html) - [Github](https://github.com/ryanontheinside/FSRCNN_Tensorflow)
- EDSR: [Lim et al., 2017](https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.02921) - [Github](https://github.com/ryanontheinside/EDSR_Tensorflow)
- ESPCN: [Shi et al., 2016](https://arxiv.org/abs/1609.05158) - [Github](https://github.com/ryanontheinside/TF-ESPCN)
- LapSRN: [Lai et al., 2017](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.01992) - [Github](https://github.com/ryanontheinside/TF-LapSRN)
</Accordion>

Commit message:

Add detailed strengths and support for multiple scale factors in super-resolution docs

technical/custom-nodes/stream-pack/super-resolution.mdx, after:

---
title: "Super Resolution"
description: "Upscale video frames in real-time using GPU acceleration."
---

<Note>
  This node is based on the work by **ryanontheinside** in his GitHub repository [ComfyUI_SuperResolution](https://github.com/ryanontheinside/ComfyUI_SuperResolution).
</Note>

## Introduction

The **Super Resolution** node **upscales** video frames with pre-trained models. The process leverages GPU acceleration through **OpenCV** compiled with CUDA support,
 ensuring exceptional speed ideal for real-time applications. When using workflows with base Stable Diffusion models optimized for **512x512**, higher resolutions can compromise efficiency and FPS.
 In these scenarios, a dedicated super-resolution node allows upscaling without significantly affecting performance or quality.

## Setup Method

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Docker Setup (Recommended)">
    The node is optimized for high-speed upscaling and requires OpenCV with CUDA support. By running ComfyStream with the **[Docker setup](/technical/get-started/install#install-with-docker)**, 
    you get a precompiled package from [ComfyUI-Stream-Pack/releases](https://github.com/JJassonn69/ComfyUI-Stream-Pack/releases/tag/v1.0) included in the Docker image. This eliminates the need for manual compilation.
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Manual Installation (Advanced)">
    If you prefer to install OpenCV with CUDA support manually, follow the guide in article [Installing OpenCV with CUDA Support](https://medium.com/@juancrrn/installing-opencv-4-with-cuda-in-ubuntu-20-04-fde6d6a0a367).
    This guides you through the multiple steps and prerequisites needed to successfully compile OpenCV package.
    
    You can use the following code block as a reference, modify the paths and variables to match your system.

    ```bash [expandable]
    # Clone OpenCV repositories
    git clone --depth 1 --branch 4.11.0 https://github.com/opencv/opencv.git
    git clone --depth 1 --branch 4.11.0 https://github.com/opencv/opencv_contrib.git

    # Create build directory
    mkdir -p opencv/build

    # Create a toolchain file with absolute path
    cat > custom_toolchain.cmake << EOF
    # Custom toolchain file to exclude Conda paths
    
    # Set system compilers
    set(CMAKE_C_COMPILER "/usr/bin/gcc")
    set(CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER "/usr/bin/g++")
    
    # Set system root directories
    set(CMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH "/usr")
    set(CMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH_MODE_PROGRAM NEVER)
    set(CMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH_MODE_LIBRARY ONLY)
    set(CMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH_MODE_INCLUDE ONLY)
    set(CMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH_MODE_PACKAGE ONLY)
    
    # Explicitly exclude Conda paths
    list(APPEND CMAKE_IGNORE_PATH 
        "/workspace/miniconda3"
        "/workspace/miniconda3/envs"
        "/workspace/miniconda3/envs/comfystream"
        "/workspace/miniconda3/envs/comfystream/lib"
    )
    
    # Set RPATH settings
    set(CMAKE_SKIP_BUILD_RPATH FALSE)
    set(CMAKE_BUILD_WITH_INSTALL_RPATH FALSE)
    set(CMAKE_INSTALL_RPATH "/usr/local/lib:/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu")
    set(PYTHON_LIBRARY "/workspace/miniconda3/envs/comfystream/lib/")
    set(CMAKE_INSTALL_RPATH_USE_LINK_PATH TRUE)
    EOF

    # Set environment variables for OpenCV
    echo 'export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH' >> ~/.bashrc
    source ~/.bashrc

    # Build and install OpenCV with CUDA support
    cd opencv/build
    cmake \
      -D CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../../custom_toolchain.cmake \
      -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RELEASE \
      -D CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local \
      -D WITH_CUDA=ON \
      -D WITH_CUDNN=ON \
      -D WITH_CUBLAS=ON \
      -D WITH_TBB=ON \
      -D OPENCV_DNN_CUDA=ON \
      -D OPENCV_ENABLE_NONFREE=ON \
      -D CUDA_ARCH_LIST="8.0+PTX" \
      -D CUDA_TOOLKIT_ROOT_DIR=/usr/local/cuda-${CUDA_VERSION} \
      -D OPENCV_EXTRA_MODULES_PATH=../../opencv_contrib/modules \
      -D PYTHON3_EXECUTABLE=/workspace/miniconda3/envs/comfystream/bin/python3.11 \
      -D PYTHON_INCLUDE_DIR=/workspace/miniconda3/envs/comfystream/include/python3.11 \
      -D PYTHON_LIBRARY=/workspace/miniconda3/envs/comfystream/lib/libpython3.11.so \
      -D HAVE_opencv_python3=ON \
      -D WITH_NVCUVID=OFF \
      -D WITH_NVCUVENC=OFF \
      ..
    make -j$(nproc)
    make install
    ldconfig
    ```

    After the compilation, you can verify that OpenCV is installed correctly by running:
    ```bash
    python3 -c "import cv2; print(cv2.cuda.getCudaEnabledDeviceCount())"
    ```
    This should output `1` or higher depending on the number of CUDA-enabled devices in your machine if installation was successful.
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Adding the Node

<Note>
  An example upscaling workflow using the Super Resolution node is available
  [here](https://github.com/livepeer/ComfyUI-Stream-Pack/blob/main/examples/workflows/super-res-fscnn-upscale-2x-gpu-api.json).
</Note>

<Steps>
  <Step title="Install the StreamPack Nodes">
    Ensure the [StreamPack](https://github.com/livepeer/ComfyUI-Stream-Pack) custom nodes are installed in your ComfyUI setup. Follow the [installation instructions](/technical/custom-nodes/stream-pack/overview#installation) for a step-by-step guide.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Open the ComfyUI Graph Editor">
    Right-click on an empty area of the canvas and choose **Add Node**.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Find the Super Resolution Nodes">
    Search for `SuperResolution` under the `StreamPack/` category.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Place it in the Workflow">
    There are two nodes under SuperResolution: `SR Model Loader` and `SR Upscale`. You need both to upscale, so place them on the canvas.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Connect Inputs and Configure Parameters">
    - In `SR Model Loader`, you'll see widgets to select the upscaling model and scale factor.
    - Connect the output of `SR Model Loader` to the input of `SR Upscale`.
    - In the `SR Upscale` node, toggle the `use CUDA` widget to `true` to enable CUDA acceleration.
    - Connect an image to the input of `SR Upscale` and a preview node to the output.
  </Step>
</Steps>

<Frame caption="Minimal Super Resolution Node Implementation">
  <img
    src="/images/stream-pack/super-resolution/super-resolution-node-image.png"
    alt="Super Resolution Node Integration"
  />
</Frame>

## Parameters

The following parameters control how the Super Resolution models behave:

### SR Model Loader Node

<ParamField path="model_type" type="string">
  **Model Type**: Select the upscaling model to use. The quality and performance vary by model. Models are downloaded and loaded automatically when selected in the canvas. Below is a basic comparison of the models.
</ParamField>

| Model | Architecture | Features | Best For | Speed | Quality |
|-------|--------------|----------|----------|-------|---------|
| **FSRCNN-small** | Lightweight CNN | Fast, minimal memory use | Real-time processing, mobile | ★★★★★ | ★★ |
| **FSRCNN** | CNN with larger features | Good balance of speed/quality | General purpose | ★★★★ | ★★★ |
| **ESPCN** | Sub-pixel convolutions | Efficient upscaling at end | Text/line drawings | ★★★★ | ★★★ |
| **VDSR** | Very deep CNN | Better edge reconstruction | Detailed images with edges | ★★★ | ★★★★ |
| **LapSRN** | Laplacian pyramid | Progressive upscaling | Sharp edges, details | ★★★ | ★★★★ |
| **EDSR** | Deep residual network | Most parameters, best quality | Maximum detail | ★★ | ★★★★★ |

<ParamField path="scale_factor" type="integer">
  **Scale Factor**: Select the upscaling factor. The image will be upscaled by this factor. For example, if the input image is `512x512`, the output will be `1024x1024` with a scale factor of `2`.
</ParamField>

### SR Upscale Node

<ParamField path="use_CUDA" type="boolean">
  **Use CUDA**: Toggle to `true` to enable CUDA acceleration for upscaling.
</ParamField>

<Accordion title="Tips for Tuning and Best Practices">

- **Select the Model for Upscaling**: Choose the model based on desired upscaling quality and performance; refer to the comparison table above.
- **Scaling Factor Selection**: Consider the required output resolution when choosing the scale factor. A higher scaling factor increases processing time, potentially reducing real-time performance.
- **Using CUDA Acceleration**: While CPU can be used for upscaling, it is significantly slower. Use CUDA acceleration for optimal performance.

</Accordion>

## Strengths and Limitations

While the Super Resolution node offers significant performance benefits compared to other upscaling methods, it also introduces a few trade-offs depending on your use case.

### Strengths

- **Wide suite of supported models**: Option to choose from multiple models (FSRCNN, ESPCN, LapSRN, EDSR) with different quality/speed tradeoffs.
- **Modular Design**: Once a model is loaded, it can be reused across multiple upscaling operations.
- **Fast performance via CUDA**: Configurable CUDA acceleration for optimal performance.
- **Multiple Scale Factors**: Support for 2x, 3x, and 4x upscaling


### Limitations

- **Setup Complexity** – The node requires a version of OpenCV with CUDA support, which may require additional setup, since the CUDA is only available for NVIDIA GPUs, it will not work on other GPUs.

## Acknowledgments

<Accordion title="Credits">

This nodepack implements models originally created by:

- FSRCNN: [Dong et al., 2016](https://mmlab.ie.cuhk.edu.hk/projects/FSRCNN.html) - [Github](https://github.com/ryanontheinside/FSRCNN_Tensorflow)
- EDSR: [Lim et al., 2017](https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.02921) - [Github](https://github.com/ryanontheinside/EDSR_Tensorflow)
- ESPCN: [Shi et al., 2016](https://arxiv.org/abs/1609.05158) - [Github](https://github.com/ryanontheinside/TF-ESPCN)
- LapSRN: [Lai et al., 2017](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.01992) - [Github](https://github.com/ryanontheinside/TF-LapSRN)
</Accordion>
